.TH ferite 1L "ferite programming language" "Yeah!" \" -*- nroff -*-

.SH NAME
builder \- ferite programming lanugage command line tool for module c
code generation.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBbuilder [options] name_of_script\fP

.SH DESCRIPTION
This application allows you to parse a number of .fec files and
generate the necessary c files for the ferite module. It will also
generate a Makefile.am for use with an autotools project.

.PP
To get a list of options, use 'builder \-\-help'.
.SH OPTIONS
The
.B builder
options are listed below.
In keeping with the freedom-of-choice philosophy, options may be eliminated
or default values chosen at compile-time, so options and defaults listed
may not accurately reflect the version installed on your system.

.TP
.BI \-h, \-\-help
Show the current for the program

.TP
.BI \-\-version
Show the current version or the program

.TP
.BI \-\-copyright
Show the current copyright for the program

.TP
.BI \-v, \-\-verbose
This will cause the builder executable to be verbose, this means that it will
explain where abouts in the grand scheme of things it is, eg. loading a file,
compiling it, deleting it.

.TP
.BI \-s, \-\-showargs
This will cause the program to dump the list of arguments it is passing to
the initialisation of the ferite engine.

.TP
.BI \-e " script" ", \-\-execute "script
This will cause builder to, instead of loading a disk file to compile and run,
use the string
.I script\.

.TP
.BI \-m " name" ", \-\-module-name "name
This will cause builder to use
.I name\.
 as the name of the module

.TP
.BI \-a " file" ", \-\-add-file "file
This will cause builder to add
.I file\.
 as an extra file to be added to the build process of the module.

.TP
.BI \-A " file" ", \-\-add-dist-file "file
This will cause builder to add
.I file\.
 as an extra file to be installed but not part of the build process.

.TP
.BI \-i " name" ", \-\-init-name "name
This will cause builder to change the name of the default module init
function to
.I name\.

.TP
.BI \-d, \-\-no-deinit
Tell builder not to generate a module deinit function

.TP
.BI \-f, \-\-no-makefile
Tell builder not to generate a Makefile.am file.

.TP
.BI \-k, \-\-force-makefile
Tell builder to build a Makefile.am even if a Makefile.am already
exists.

.TP
.BI \-nc, \-\-no-configm4
Tell builder not to generate a config.m4 file.

.TP
.BI \-b " path" ", \-\-builder-path "path
This will cause builder to use
.I path\.
 as for the builder location in the Makefile.am 

.TP
.BI \-p " path" ", \-\-source-prefix "path
This will cause builder to use
.I path\.
 as for the src prefix in the Makefile.am

.TP
.BI \-c, \-\-closed
Tell builder not to generate code that does not require the source
files to be run. By default ferite uses the source files and the
loaded module together.

.TP
.BI \-fp " path" ", \-\-file-prefix "path
This will cause builder to use
.I path\.
 as the place to put the generated files.

.PP
The following options are specific to the engine and can be used where ever
the engine is used.

.TP
.BI \-\-fe-debug
This will turn on internal debugging of the engine. This will (if the engine
has been compiled with \-\-enable-debug) cause a huge amount of data to be
outputed onto
.I stdout\.
The information contained within it is invaluable - tracking of function
execution flow, all sorts of messages allowing for the very quick location of
bugs.

.TP
.BI \-\-fe-use-classic
ferite by default uses's it's own memory suballocator called
.I jedi
but there are times when it is useful to either access the system's malloc
directly, or to track when memory is being used. If ferite is compiled with
debugging, the classic memory manager will track memory allocations and dump
a table at the end of the program's execution to show all allocated memory.
This is vital for tracking memory leaks.
.I WARNING:
This mode will cause ferite's speed to drop immensily - it's only useful for
debugging the engine.

.TP
.BI \-\-fe-show-mem-use
ferite keeps internal counters of memory useage, use this to see at the end
of a programs execution how much memory is still allocated, or has been
allocated.

.TP
.BI \-\-fe-use-mm-with-pcre
Tell ferite to use it's own memory manager with the pcre regular
expression library

.SH BUGS
Of course! What software project would be without bugs? Please Please, email
bug reports to ferite-devel@lists.sourceforge.net \- thanks. 

.SH AUTHOR
ferite is designed and implemented by Chris Ross <chris@darkrock.co.uk>

.SH URL(s)
ferite Home Page -- http://www.ferite.org/
.br
Author's Home Page -- http://www.darkrock.co.uk/
